<h1>Estimating GPCR Signalling potential-Modelling to Quantitate Channel Capacity with cAMP Data
</h1>
<br>
<p>Cell survival requires cell-to-cell and cell-environment communication. Cells possess specialised receptors that sense external cues and communicate through chemical signals. Although biologists use chemical and biological readouts to measure cell-to-cell communication, the magnitude of information transfer is not fully understood. The information theoretic approach could possibly revolutionise the area of cell-to-cell communication and be leveraged for high-end precision diagnostics, for example, distinguishing between cancerous and non-cancerous cells, where there are differences in the magnitude of intercellular communication. This study investigates the information capacity of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signalling pathways using cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response data obtained from HEK293 cells stimulated with arginine vasopressin (AVP). The cAMP response of approximately 65,000 HEK293 cells was analysed across 12 distinct ligand concentrations. Statistical descriptors were calculated for logarithmically transformed cAMP responses, and mutual information analysis explored the relationship between input ligand concentration and cAMP response. Channel capacity, representing the upper limit of mutual information, was examined, providing insights into information transmission capabilities. Further investigations at the single-cell level were conducted, and computational analyses were facilitated using a Python script. This methodological framework offers insights into signalling dynamics in cellular responsiveness and highlights the potential of GPCRs as therapeutic targets, particularly in disease states such as cancer.</p>

<a href="/0_project_report.pdf">Project Report</a>
